New Alien Species: the Jibauni (#10867)
endless-sky/endless-sky: data/jibauni/rebel jibauni 0 consultations.txt

				flee
			label "met and declined the jibauni"
			`Upon landing, a Rebel comes up to you telling you to go to <planet> to consult with the leaders. You don't have another option, and so you tell the Jibauni that you will. As the Rebels seem to expect you to leave immediately, you decide to do so.`
				launch
			label flee
			action
				"reputation: Rebel Jibauni" = -1
				set "jibauni: disliked by the rebels"
	on complete
		event "rebel jibauni ready first contact" 1
		"reputation: Jibauni (Rebel)" = 10
		conversation
			`A Rebel Jibauni tells you to take off and re-land so that they can prepare for your arrival. You are then unceremoniously launched with some strange mechanism.`
				launch

event "rebel jibauni ready first contact"

mission "Rebel Jibauni: Landed on Andwerfen"
	landing
	source Andwerfen
	to offer
		or
			has "First Contact: Rebel Jibauni: declined"
			has "First Contact: Rebel Jibauni: done"
		not "attempted to shoot a rebel jibauni"
		has "event: rebel jibauni ready first contact"
	on offer
		conversation

> 			`A long wait ensues after you land on <origin>. The Rebel Jibauni seem to be trying to find someone you can speak your language. Feeling bored, you wonder about going to see what's happening.`

Reviewer: This feels like it is telling the player what they're feeling/thinking.

```suggestion
			`A long wait ensues after you land on <origin>. The Rebel Jibauni seem to be trying to find someone who can speak your language. The stillness lingers as you consider exploring outside the ship.`
```

			choice
				`	(Hey, it's better then staying here the rest of the day.)`
				`	(You have no idea what this world is about, and don't want to wander unbidden.)`
					goto stay

> 			`	As you wander around the spaceport of <origin>, you notice the unhappy residents make way, even in the thickest crowds, without being asked. At last, you run into a Jibauni who has something around its neck. It gives an exclamation of surprise, and then asks in a language that you can easily understand, "Why have you not come before? I will take you to the government building." It drags you through the city, and then down a side alley. After a long climp up a ramp, you enter a room which has a congregation of dinosaurs.`

Reviewer: How do we know the residents are unhappy (I don't think dinosaurs can frown)? Congregation of dinosaurs also feels like there's a variety of different dinosaur species. If it's solely Jibuani, maybe something like "a congregation of the dinosaur-like creatures" to more clearly imply it's just the Jibuani.

				goto conversation
			label stay

> 			`	After a few more hours, a Rebel comes rushing up, full of apologies. "I am so sorry. The leaders had different things to do, and the person supposed to find you was ambushed. Come with me now though for a consultation." It pulls you, with remarkable speed, through the streets of the city. Finally, after ducking down a side alley and going up a wide stairway, you are led into a room with a congregation of dinosaurs in it.`

Reviewer: Ditto on congregation of dinosaurs

			label conversation
			`	One of them begins to speak. "Welcome, fair stranger. How have you arrived here, and where have you come from?"`
			choice
				`	"I come from human space, of course."`
					goto human
				`	"Well, that may be hard to say."`
					goto cantsay

> 				`	"I came from your foolish originals the Jibauni. For some reason they are prejudiced about you and don't like the sound of the word 'Rebel'."`

Reviewer: Originals feels off here. Not sure on the best replacement though... predecessors? Oppressors?

```suggestion
				`	"I came from your foolish oppressors, the Jibauni. For some reason, they are prejudiced against you and don't like the sound of the word 'Rebel'."`
```

					to display
						has "jibauni: joined the rebels"
					goto metrelatives
				`	"Why should I tell you?"`
					goto refusedtotell
			label human
			`	"What if I tell you the word 'human' is strange to our ears? No matter. May I ask though whether your ship is painted red?"`
			label humanchoice

> 			choice

Reviewer: Should there be an option to say that shouldn't they know? After all, the player's ship is apparently famous and the leaders just had a guide bring the player from their ship. They would probably be well aware of the ship's color if it was important

Author: Added that. If you point it out they move on without comment on their mistake.

				`	"Why?"`
					to display
						not "rebel jibauni: why red"
					goto humanwhy
				`	"No."`
					goto prenoandcontinue
				`	"In a manner of speaking, yes."`
					to display
						has "event: became a pirate"
					goto iamapirate
			label humanwhy
			action
				set "rebel jibauni: why red"
			`	"We wish to know. You don't need to be aware of anything else related to this."`
				goto humanchoice
			label iamapirate

> 			`	"What!" All the Rebel Jibauni jump out of their seats in seeming fury. "This means you have ten minutes to leave. If you have not gone by then, you die!"`

Reviewer: Do Jibauni use human minutes?

			label chasedbytherebels
			`	Do you want to leave? They are threatening, but may not actually mean it.`
			choice
				`	(No. They are surely joking.)`
				`	(Get out of here, now.)`
					goto nowleave
			label joking

> 			`	You wait in the building. At ten minutes, a Jibauni pulls out a gun and shoots you.`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
			`	You wait in the building. After ten minutes, a Jibauni pulls out a gun and shoots you.`
```

				goto realpoint
			label prenoandcontinue
			`	"I have something you must agree to, should you wish to continue in our space. I will lay out the terms and conditions."`
				goto realpoint
			label metrelatives
			`	"They are deluded. You shall have problems should you be as well. Now, a thing you must agree to if you want to continue in our space. Terms and conditions are as following."`
				goto realpoint
			label refusedtotell
			`	"Because you want to live, of course. But I suppose it does not matter, if you agree to our terms and conditions of commerce in Rebel Jibauni space. Here, look at this."`
			label realpoint
			`	The Rebel Jibauni lays out a paper with these words on it: "To continue your sojourn in our space, you must be willing to take any government official anywhere whenever we request you to with the words: 'Requested by the Real Jibauni'. If you agree, you may stay. If not..."`
			choice
				`	"Oh, I'll do it alright."`
					goto good
				`	"Unlikely."`
					goto thatisterrible
			label good
			action
				set "rebel jibauni: will transport upon request"

> 			`	"Perfect! We will contact you when we want you. Goodbye." The same Rebel who led you here takes you back to the <ship> and you are left to your own devices.`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
			`	"Perfect! We will contact you when we want you. Goodbye." The same Rebel who led you here takes you back to the <ship>, where you are left to your own devices.`
```

				decline
			label thatisterrible
			`	"Now now now, no need to get angry. Are you sure of this?"`
			choice
				`	"No. I'll take anyone who asks."`
					goto good
				`	"I am sure that I will never submit to your aggression."`
			label ouch
			`	"Your loss. Leave immediately. Or you will be-" At this point the speaker is pulled aside. They must mean it.`

> 			`	Do you want to leave? They are threatening, but may not actually mean that you will have trouble.`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
			`	Do you want to leave? They seem threatening, but may not actually mean you harm.`
```

					goto leave
				`	(Stay here.)`
					goto die
			label leave
			action
				"reputation: Jibauni (Rebel)" = -1000
				set "jibauni: disliked by the rebels"
			`	You rush back to your ship, getting there before news has spread. Leaving immediately, you find that the Rebel Jibauni up in space are preparing for a fight...`
				flee
			label die
			`	You haven't stayed long when a Jibauni pulls out a gigantic pistol and shoots you in the forehead. You are dead. This is the penalty for being "impolite" to the Rebel Jibauni.`
				die
	on decline
		clear "rebel jibauni: why red"
		event "rebel jibauni: initial transportation" 4 8
	npc
		government "Jibauni (Rebel)"
		personality heroic nemesis
		ship "Nathar" "Rin"
	npc
		government "Jibauni (Rebel)"
		personality heroic nemesis staying
		fleet "Small Rebel Jibauni Military" 3

event "rebel jibauni: initial transportation"

mission "Rebel Jibauni: Government Transportation 1"
	landing
	source Andwerfen
	destination Sinsansun
	passengers 1
	to offer
		has "event: rebel jibauni: initial transportation"
		has "rebel jibauni: will transport upon request"
		not "jibauni: disliked by the rebels"
	on offer
		conversation

> 			`A Rebel Jibauni comes up and announces something. Your translator converts it to, "Take me to <planet> for our leaders and the good of the Rebel Jibauni. Do not dare refuse. This has been 'Requested by the Real Jibauni'."`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
			`A Rebel Jibauni comes up and growls something in its native tongue. Your translator converts it to: "Take me to <planet> for our leaders and the good of the Rebel Jibauni. Do not dare refuse. This has been 'Requested by the Real Jibauni'."`
```

	on offer
		conversation
			`A group of Rebels approach the landing pad that the <ship> is landed on and ask you to take them to <planet>. You do not seem to be able to refuse, as they tell you that this transport mission has been "Requested by the Real Jibauni".`
				accept
	on complete
		event "rebel jibauni: government transportation done" 10 25
		payment 50000
		conversation
			`The group disembarks, but one of them gives you <payment>, "As a small token of our gratitude."`

event "rebel jibauni: government transportation done"

mission "Rebel Jibauni: Bring Them Back"
	name "Transport Rebels Back"
	description "Get the Rebel Jibauni that you transported out to <stopovers> back to <destination>."
	source Andwerfen
	stopover Minmanmun
	stopover Muntisir
	stopover Sinsansun
	passengers 5
	to offer
		has "event: rebel jibauni: government transportation done"
	on offer
		payment 10000
		conversation
			`The spaceport of <origin> is a very busy place. As you walk around admiring the sights, you are suddenly pulled into an alley by an unknown assailant and yanked away from the main thoroughfare. You are then knocked out.`

> 			`	A while later, when you wake up, you find yourself in the same place as you were when the Rebel Jibauni Leaders spoke to you. As you think this, the same Jibauni enter and are seated.`

Reviewer: There's inconsistent capitalization of **L**eaders in this mission chain. I'd lean towards lower case, but it doesn't really matter so long as it's consistent.

			`	"Good job not being startled when kidnapped," one of them says in complimentary tones. "This is surprising to many of our people, but I see that you are special."`
			`	Another one speaks. "Our request for you today is that you will go to <stopovers> to pick up the members of our people whom you transported there. You will receive money for this, and indeed have already gained ten thousand credits for doing what you have so far."`
			`	"So, what do you say? Will you bring them back here? Or be stripped of all further services?"`

> 			choice

Reviewer: Shouldn't you have an option to ask for the passphrase here?

Author: It's the same people as told you the passphrase, so I don't think you need to ask about it.

Reviewer: Ah, that was unclear to me. Probably fine then.

					goto foul
				`	"No, not really."`
					goto nonotreally
			label acceptone
			action
				set "rebel jibauni: calm"
			label accept
			`	"Perfect! The agents will be waiting for you at the spaceports."`
				accept
			label foul
			`	"What! An insult! How dare you!" the Rebel Jibauni simultaneously exclaim. They jump out of their seats and mob you.`
			`	It is a bad idea to be impolite to the Jibauni.`
				die
			label nonotreally
			`	"Positive? We don't really love people who decline us, you know..."`
			choice
				`	"Oh, whatever. I'll take them."`
					goto accept
				`	"Never, foul tyrannosauruses!"`
					goto foul
				`	"No means no, my friends."`
					goto nomeansno
			label nomeansno
			`	"No, no means yes. But this is your final chance. Say no one more time, and you will be stripped of all connections with us."`
			choice
				`	"If you insist, you insist. I'll take them, I guess."`
					goto accept
				`	"I have already given you my answer."`
					goto alreadyanswer
			label alreadyanswer
			action
				"reputation: Jibauni (Rebel)" = -100 # I would like to make this so that you have a two-day time limit before the Rebels become hostile, but that doesn't seem possible.

> 			`	"As you please. Guards," and the Rebel snaps its fingers. You are escorted back to the <ship> and warned that no mercy will be shown when you take off. You are also informed that you are taking off now.`

Reviewer: Maybe mention that they launch you with the mechanism

				flee
	on stopover
		dialog `All of the Rebel Jibauni are on your ship. Now return to Andwerfen for the reward.`
	on complete
		event "rebel jibauni: storyline can continue: bring them back" 20 60
		payment 50000
		conversation

> 			`This time when you land you and the Jibauni you were transporting are escorted in state to the government building. Instead of going through a side alley, the entourage goes right up the main steps and into the same room, where the Leaders are already waiting for you.`

Reviewer: Same capitalization thing, I'm leaving it as-is here but it should be consistent.

```suggestion
			`This time when you land, you and the Jibauni you were transporting are escorted to the government building. Instead of going through a side alley, the entourage goes right up the main steps and into the same room, where the Leaders are already waiting for you.`
```

#
# Endless Sky is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
# WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A
# PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for more details.
#
# You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with
# this program. If not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

mission "First Contact: Rebel Jibauni"
	name "Travel to <planet>"
	description `Travel to <destination> to meet up with the leaders of this "Rebel Jibauni" faction.`
	landing
	source
		government "Jibauni (Rebel)"
	destination Andwerfen
	to offer
		not "Jibauni: Kanlanmo 0: active"
		not "Jibauni: Kanlanmo 0: done"
		not "Jibauni: Kanlanmo (0 declined): active"
		not "Jibauni: Kanlanmo (0 declined): done"
	on offer
		conversation
			branch "flagship andwerfen"
				has "flagship planet: Andwerfen"
			branch "met and declined the jibauni"
				has "jibauni: joined the rebels"
				not "flagship planet: Andwerfen"
			branch "met and declined the jibauni and on andwerfen"
				has "jibauni: joined the rebels"
				not "flagship planet: Andwerfen"
			label nothing

> 			`As you land on <origin>, a strange creature comes up to you. It is in the shape of the fabled Tyrannosaurus Rex from Earth, but it is covered in what is seemingly metal armor.`

Reviewer 2: After landing on <origin>, an unusual creature approaches you. It looks like a long extinct Tyrannosaurus Rex from Earth, but in miniature as it is no taller than yourself. It is also covered in a metallic looking armor.
```suggestion
			`As you land on <origin>, a strange creature comes up to you. It is in the shape of the fabled Tyrannosaurus Rex from Earth, but it is covered in what is seemingly metal armor.`
```

			`	Dangerous, yes, but it might also be wise to go out and attempt to communicate with the mysterious dinosaur.`
			choice
				`	(Go try to speak with the alien.)`
					goto speak
				`	(Leave. The danger isn't worth it.)`
					goto flee
				`	(The unknown is dangerous. Shoot the thing.)`
					goto shot
			label speak

> 			`	Before you can do anything, you hear strange words, something like "Je. Vqekuves?" Suddenly the words are converted to a language you can barely understand. "Go to <planet>." Apparently that is the only thing they have to say, and the huge crowd disperses after watching you make your preparations for taking off... and starting the launch sequence.`

Reviewer 2: Take everything I say with a grain of salt.  Just see it as possible ideas for changes. 

```suggestion
			`	Before you can do anything, incomprehensible sounds erupt from the alien's mouth, something like "Je. Vqekuves?" Suddenly the words are snatched out of the air and twisted into a words simple understandable words. "Go to <planet>." Apparently that is the only thing they have to say, and the huge crowd disperses after watching you make your preparations for taking off... and starting the launch sequence.`
```

				launch
			label shot
			branch "shot and missed"
				random < 30
			action
				"reputation: Jibauni (Rebel)" = -1
				set "jibauni: disliked by the rebels"
			`	You grab a weapon from the interior of the <ship> and point it at the stranger. But before you can attack, a loud noise sounds, and your ship is launched into the air, with the likeness of planetary defenses pointing at it.`
			`	You decide to leave before anything else can happen.`
				flee
			label "shot and missed"

> 			`	Grabbing a pistol from the inside of the <ship>, you rush outside and fire. Aim was hasty, however, and you see the bullet miss wildly.`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
			`	Grabbing a pistol from the inside of the <ship>, you rush outside and fire. Aim was hasty, however, and the shot goes wildly off target.`
```
